We all know what a presentation looks like: a slideshow, someone stands in front of it and talk, the audience listens, the speaker finishes talking, maybe the audience asks some questions, then everybody leaves. It's about as tried and true a format as we have in the design community, the bread and butter of delivering projects, viewpoints, and inspiration. However, what happens if you start to toy with the format itself?

I decided to see what would happen if we hacked the actual presentation itself, just a little bit. Let's say this is the model of the presentation:

The filled blue circle is the presenter and the un-filled blue circles is the audience. Is there a way to make the audience the more akin to the presenter, to level the playing field and engage the audience in the process of presenting and in the experience of being presented to? 

Could we even make something like this?

One thing is for certain, you'll never know if you don't try. Here at Teague every Wednesday we have a Teague Talk that can be an personal get-to-know-me introduction, a talk on a topic that someone here has particular expertise in, or a guest.For my Teague Talk I decided to talk about experimentation and the wonder of not knowing what's going to happen. I titled the talk In Praise Of Not Kwowing and I decided to make the presentation a webpage hosted by a node.js server instead of the usual Keynote or Powerpoint presentation for a very particular reason: I wanted to give at least some control over the presentation to the audience and see what happened. I couldn't really completely give over control of the content of the presentation itself to the audience but I could hand over control of the slides and see what happened. And what happened was very fun, very silly, very frustrating, and an absolutely worthwhile exercise.

To explain a little about how I made this. In a word: websockets. Light real-time communication streams between browsers that can reside on different computers or even just in different browser tabs. My presentation itself was actually just a webpage written using a library called Reveal.js that is made for building presentations out of webpages. You can control the presentation itself with a mouse press, a key press, or with a little Javascript in whatever way you'd like. A small controller allowed anyone to move the presentation forward, backward, to a random slide, and a few other silly additions. I gave out the URI to the audience before beginning the talk so that anyone sitting there could control the presentation. The node.js server used socket.io to route signals from all the different controller instances back to the main presentation instance.